CASMINST-4866 Layout Changes for install/README.md (#1934)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: install/create_ncn_metadata_csv.md

to collect is the MAC addresses for the node's BMC, the node's bootable network interface, and the
pair of network interfaces which will become the bonded interface `bond0`.

## Topics

- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [LACP Bonding](#lacp-bonding)

> - [PXE or BOOTSTRAP MAC](#pxe-or-bootstrap-mac)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [PXE or bootstrap MAC address](#pxe-or-bootstrap-mac)
```

- [Sample `ncn_metadata.csv`](#sample-ncn_metadatacsv)

> - [Collection of MAC Addresses](#collection-of-mac-addresses)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Collection of MAC addresses](#collection-of-mac-addresses)
```

## Introduction

Each of the management nodes is represented as a row in the `ncn_metadata.csv` file.

For example:

> ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```csv
```

See [Component Names (xnames)](../operations/Component_Names_xnames.md).

There are two interesting parts to the NCN metadata file:

> - The MAC of the BMC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The MAC address of the BMC
```

> - The MAC(s) of the Shasta management network interfaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The MAC addresses of the Shasta management network interfaces
```

> - The MAC(s) of the Shasta management network interface(s)

Reviewer: Style guide says not to use (s). Either make it plural or, if it is important to emphasize that it could just be one, say "dog or dogs"

```suggestion
- The MAC(s) of the Shasta management network interfaces
```

> The "Shasta management network interface" is the interface(s) that comprise the NCNs' LACP link-aggregation ports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Shasta management network interfaces" are the interfaces that comprise the NCNs' LACP link-aggregation ports.
```

> ### LACP Bonding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### LACP bonding
```

- One bond with 4 interfaces (`bond0`)
- Two bonds with 2 interfaces each (`bond0` and `bond1`)

For more information, see [NCN Networking](../background/ncn_networking.md).

## PXE or bootstrap MAC address

In general this refers to the interface to be used when the node attempts to PXE boot. This varies between vintages

> of systems; systems before Spring 2020 often booted NCNs with onboard NICs; newer systems boot over PCIe cards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of systems; systems before Spring 2020 often booted NCNs with onboard NICs, while newer systems boot over PCIe cards.
```

For more information, see [NCN Networking](../background/ncn_networking.md) page for NCNs.

> ## PXE or BOOTSTRAP MAC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## PXE or Bootstrap MAC address
```

In general this refers to the interface to be used when the node attempts to PXE boot. This varies between vintages

> of systems; systems before "Spring 2020" often booted NCNs with onboard NICs, newer systems boot over their PCIe cards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of systems; systems before Spring 2020 often booted NCNs with onboard NICs; newer systems boot over PCIe cards.
```

> If the system is **booting over PCIe then the "bootstrap MAC" and the "`bond0 MAC0`" will be identical**. If the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the system is **booting over PCIe, then the `Bootstrap MAC` and the `bond0 MAC0` will be identical**. If the
```

> system is **booting over onboard NICs then the "bootstrap MAC" and the "`bond0 MAC0`" will be different.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
system is **booting over onboard NICs, then the `Bootstrap MAC` and the `Bond0 MAC0` will be different.**
```

> ### Other Nomenclature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Other nomenclature
```

> - "BOND MACS" are the MAC addresses for the physical interfaces that the node will use for the various VLANs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `BOND` MAC addresses are the MAC addresses for the physical interfaces that the node will use for the various VLANs.
```

> - BOND0 MAC0 and BOND0 MAC1 should **not** be on the same physical network card to establish redundancy for failed chips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `BOND0 MAC0` and `BOND0 MAC1` should **not** be on the same physical network card, in order to establish redundancy for failed chips.
```

The following are sample rows from a `ncn_metadata.csv` file:

> - **Use case**: NCN with a single PCIe card (1 card with 2 ports):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Use case**: NCN with a single PCIe card (one card with two ports):
```

>     > Notice how the MAC address for `Bond0 MAC0` and `Bond0 MAC1` are only off by 1, which indicates that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Notice how the MAC address for `Bond0 MAC0` and `Bond0 MAC1` are only off by one, which indicates that
```

>     > they are on the same 2 port card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > they are on the same two-port card.
```

>     ```test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```csv
```

    Xname,Role,Subrole,BMC MAC,Bootstrap MAC,Bond0 MAC0,Bond0 MAC1
    x3000c0s6b0n0,Management,Worker,94:40:c9:37:77:b8,14:02:ec:da:bb:00,14:02:ec:da:bb:00,14:02:ec:da:bb:01
    ```

- **Use case**: NCN with a dual PCIe cards (2 cards with 2 ports each for 4 ports total):

>     > Notice how the MAC address for `Bond0 MAC0` and `Bond0 MAC1` have a difference greater than 1, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > Notice how the MAC addresses for `Bond0 MAC0` and `Bond0 MAC1` have a difference greater than 1, which
```

>     > indicates that they are on not on the same 2 port same card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > indicates that they are on not on the same two-port card.
```

>     ```test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```csv
```

    Xname,Role,Subrole,BMC MAC,Bootstrap MAC,Bond0 MAC0,Bond0 MAC1
    x3000c0s9b0n0,Management,Storage,94:40:c9:37:77:26,14:02:ec:d9:76:88,14:02:ec:d9:76:88,94:40:c9:5f:b6:92
    ```

Example `ncn_metadata.csv` file for a system that has been configured as follows:

- Management NCNs are configured to boot over the PCIe NICs

> - Master and Storage management NCNs have two 2 port PCIe cards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Master and storage management NCNs have two dual port PCIe cards
```

> - Worker management NCNs have one 2 port PCIe card

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Worker management NCNs have one dual port PCIe card
```

> **IMPORTANT**
> Mind the index for each group of nodes (3, 2, 1.... ; not 1, 2, 3).
> If storage nodes are `ncn-s001 x3000c0s7b0n0`, `ncn-s002 x3000c0s8b0n0`, `ncn-s003 x3000c0s9b0n0`,
> then their portion of the file would be ordered `x3000c0s9b0n0`, `x3000c0s8b0n0`, `x3000c0s7b0n0`.

Because the NCNs have been configured to boot over their PCIe NICs, the `Bootstrap MAC` and `Bond0 MAC0` columns have the same value.

> ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```csv
```

x3000c0s1b0n0,Management,Master,94:40:c9:37:87:32,14:02:ec:da:b9:98,14:02:ec:da:b9:98,14:02:ec:da:b9:99
```

## Collection of MAC Addresses

> See [Collect MAC Addresses for NCNs](./collect_mac_addresses_for_ncns.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Collect MAC Addresses for NCNs](collect_mac_addresses_for_ncns.md).
```
